Well, I am really
excited about being here.
I'm just thrilled.
That Ben would ask me to come down and,
and share a little bit with you today.
I don't get to share too much.
I, I'm a kind of re old retired guy, and
so I don't get too many opportunities,
uh, just to be able to share the word.
So I, I'm really excited and I,
I really am happy to be here.
Uh, I, I love your, your church.
I've seen you online, but
I've never seen you live.
Uh, and so I, you know, I've
checked out the building and,
and I looked at your website and.
I'm not sure.
Are you the gal who was
baptized on, on the website?
That's you.
Okay.
It is a wonderful picture.
I mean, you're so smiling.
It's like that is what every baptism
should look like, you know, it's just, you
can just tell you're just so excited about
coming up into new life and all that.
It's absolutely great.
I, I love the name Inspiring.
Is, is, is a great, is just a
great adjective to go with hope.
And I did a study in hope, not, not
just for this, but I've done a study on
the word hope before in the Bible, and
it's different than the way I use hope.
Hope, ah, I hope the
Buckeyes continue to win.
I hope, I hope it doesn't rain next week.
If you look at the biblical term of hope
and kind of do a word study on that,
it is almost, All the time connected to
the promises of God, and usually it's
connected to the resurrection of Jesus
Christ and the hope that we have in him.
So my definition of biblical hope is 100
percent confidence in the promises of God.
I don't always have that hope.
And in fact, oftentimes I live in
the hope of I hope it doesn't rain.
I gotta tell you a real quick story
about one of those times for me.
It was on July 17th, 2014.
And I was living at the time
in a one room above a bar.
And the reason I was living in that
one room above the bar In a little
place called Port Clinton, Pennsylvania
is because I was trying to through
hike the Appalachian Trail, and
that's 1200 miles into the trail.
I fell down, hurt my leg, got
cellulitis in my leg, and so I'm
kind of just Hung up here in this
little town and my leg was so sore.
I lived in a one little room and
you had to go down the, the, uh, the
hallway to get to the bathroom, and I
could hardly get down to the bathroom.
My leg hurt so much, it was
just thumping and it was red.
And, uh, so I, I went to the,
uh, uh, urgent care and they
gave me some antibiotics.
So I'm pumping these antibiotics and
it's doing almost nothing for me.
And I'm thinking, I think my hike's over.
I don't think I'm gonna
be able to continue.
And I wanted to finish the Appalachian
Trail so much it was just a driving
force in my life for a couple of
years to try to get this done.
I think, I don't, I'm not sure
I'm going to be able to continue.
So I called my wife and I
said, Kat, I think I'm done.
I think I'm going to have to get
a rental car and just come home.
And she said, Are you
taking your antibiotics?
Yeah, I'm taking my antibiotics,
and it's not doing any good.
He said, are you taking ibuprofen?
I said, no, I'm taking antibiotics.
He said, well, you can take ibuprofen
and antibiotics at the same time.
I didn't know that.
So I started to take a little bit
of ibuprofen, and I thought, the
next day, this is my decision day.
I'm either going to
continue, or I'm going home.
And I I want to continue,
but I don't know that I can.
So I packed up my back one out of the, uh,
of Port Clinton, and you got to climb up
this mountain to get out of Port Clinton.
If I can get to the top of the
mountain, I think I'm going to be okay.
If I can't get to the top of the
mountain, I just got to come down and
I got I got to get my my rental car.
So I made it to the top of the mountain.
Two and a half months later, I'm
standing on Mount Katahdin in Maine.
But I had this decision.
I hope that I can do this,
but I don't know that I can.
I just don't know if I can continue.
Well, Paul writes this letter
to, uh, the church at Colossae.
And in chapter 2, he kind of brings
them to that kind of a place.
Do you gonna continue?
Do you wanna continue?
Do you need to continue?
How are you gonna continue?
And so it's here in, uh,
Colossians chapter 2, verse 6 to 8.
And I'd like to just look
at this passage and maybe...
Yeah, there we go.
Uh, just kind of read this passage,
and then I want to dig into it just a
little bit and see what this might say
and how that we can continue as well.
It says, So then, just as you received
Christ Jesus as Lord, continue to live
in Him, rooted and built up in Him,
strengthened in your faith as you were
taught, and overflowing with faith.
With thankfulness.
See to it that no one takes you
captive through hollow and deceptive
philosophy, which depends on human
tradition and the basic principles
of this world rather than on Christ.
So I'd like to zero in, first of all, in
verses 6 and 7, and you can kind of see
the, uh, the place where I want to start.
Continue to live in Him.
Now this word for live
is an interesting word.
In the Greek, it actually means to walk.
You know, I like that.
And oftentimes it means to walk with a
purpose or walk with with with integrity.
And it's kind of like the old saying,
you know, you got to talk to talk,
but you need to walk the walk.
That's a biblical idea of what it
means to live in him, to walk in.
A content, uh, driven life.
I like the word hike here
obviously, 'cause I'm a hiker,
but I like the word hike because
hike has for me a context of life.
You know, when I go for a walk, I
go down a nice little paved road and
everything's really nice and stuff,
but when you go for a hike, man, you go
up and you go down and you go through
the, the, the forest and you go through
the water and, and it rains on you.
And, and, and that's
more like life, isn't it?
It's not just a nice little
smooth little paved sidewalk.
Life is hard sometimes.
There's a song written by
Stephen Curtis Chapman.
Uh, I memorized this song before I
went on my hike because it's so cool.
It's called A Long Way Home.
It says, I started out on
this great adventure when my
father started leading me home.
He said, there's gonna be some
mountains to climb and some
valleys we're gonna go through.
But I had no way of knowing how
hard that journey was gonna be.
Because the valleys are deeper
and the mountains are steeper
than I ever could have dreamed.
But I know we're gonna make it.
I know we're gonna make it soon.
I know sometimes it feels like
you're going the wrong way.
But it's just a long way home.
I like that concept because we need
to continue to hike, continue to live.
And this word can, uh, of live, it
really is just the verb to live,
but it's in the present tense.
So you have this continual hiking, this
continual living, constantly hiking.
So As I was laying in this bed in
Port Clinton, I thought, how in
the world am I going to do that?
And I think that's kind of the
question we need to ask here.
Okay, I want to continue to live in him.
How do I do that?
How do I make that through when it's
pouring down the rain and I'm really
cold and I gotta go up this mountain?
How do I do that?
Well, I think Paul gives seven
footprints, if you will, as to how
we can continue to live in him.
And the first one, it goes backwards
just a little bit, just as you receive
Christ Jesus as Lord, continue.
So we have to remember, you
know, we have to remember that
time when we came to the Lord.
For me, that was 50 years ago, long
before most of you were even born.
For some of you, it may be five years
ago, it might be five days ago, it
might not have even happened yet.
But for those of you who know the
Lord, Paul is calling us to think back.
To the way that we found Christ, the
way that we we we accepted him and
just that way we need to continue.
And when I think about how I came to
the Lord, there were some realizations
that took place in my life.
There was a realization of who God is.
God is so big and he is so perfect
and he's holy and he's powerful
and he's love and he's just just
truth transcendent so far above me.
I had to recognize who God was in my life,
and then I need to recognize who I was.
I was not God, I'm not holy, I'm broken,
I was messed up, I was a sinful person.
So I need to recognize this
gulf between God and myself.
Realizing that I can't get past that gulf.
Just to kind of give you a quick
illustration, if you think that gulf is
like a mile, just a mile, not, not 2, 186
miles of the Appalachian Trail, just one
mile, if we're one mile away from God, and
if we could just somehow jump that far, I
happen to look at the, the world's record
for the longest, Running broad jump 1968.
If you can believe that's when
it was set by Bob Breenham.
I actually saw that Olympic game.
He ran and he jumped 29 ft 2.
5 inches of the 5, 280
ft that we need to jump.
It's just impossible no matter who
you are to really make it to God.
So it's that recognition.
Of, uh, off the golf.
And then there's the recognition
of Jesus and what Jesus did.
Jesus was God and became man.
We couldn't make it over to God.
So God came to us and he
just didn't come to teach.
He came to die for us.
He is the gap filler.
He's the bridge.
It's through his blood that
we have forgiveness of sin.
He is our savior and our redeemer.
So you have to have to kind
of get that as well in mind.
And then, and then this verse says
not only do we need to receive Christ
Jesus, because here's the Christ part.
Here is the savior part.
Here's the Messiah.
Here's the anointed one.
He's the one who redeems us from our sin,
but as Lord, receiving Christ as Lord.
He's the master.
We are not.
He's the one who's in control.
Talk about control.
Don't have that control, do we?
God, though, is the master
and the one in control.
So when you think about all of the
attitude that that is in receiving
Christ as your Savior and your Lord,
you have these attitudes of humility.
Can't make it.
I can't do this.
It's only through Christ this attitude
of repentance I need to turn from
my sin and and take the bridge
that that Christ is offering and
then just that Incredible attitude.
So if we have a gratitude, so if we have
that kind of attitude I think that's
our first step to continuing need to
understand who Christ is in in living
for him So footstep number two, two,
three and four are great picture words
And the first word here is rooted.
This is the picture of the tree.
We are a tree with those roots
that go down way, way deep in life.
In fact, this This Greek tense verb
tense, but I hope this isn't too
much down in the weeds for you.
But this, the Greek has several tenses
just like we do in English and they have
what they call the perfect tense and we
don't have a perfect tense in English.
In fact, we have very little perfect
at all in the English language.
It's one of the most confusing
languages I've ever seen.
But in the Greek, there is this
perfect tense and the perfect
tense is a combination of the
past tense and the present tense.
And what it means is.
Something happened in the past,
and what happened in the past
is still at work in the present.
And so he's saying, we were
rooted, we were rooted when
we accepted Christ as Lord.
That's when the roots started to go
down, and those roots are, they haven't
gone away, those roots are still here.
We need to continue to be that
tree, putting down our roots as
far as we can, down into the soil.
I love trees.
I don't hug them, but I do love
trees, and I like to see how beautiful
they are in the forest, and one of
the things I noticed about trees,
you can't even see the roots.
I mean, the roots are underneath of
it, and that's what makes the tree
strong and powerful, and that's
oftentimes true in our lives.
Sometimes we don't see, uh, people
don't see what makes us strong, but our
roots are way down there in the dirt.
And for us, it's down deep into
Jesus tree goes roots goes go
down into the dirt to get water.
And Jesus said, I'm the living water.
People can drink and get thirsty.
But if you drink my water,
you'll never go thirsty.
And the roots go down and get all those
nutrients as well out of the ground.
Jesus said, I'm the bread of life.
If you eat my bread, you'll
never go hungry again.
And so it's that first thing is that
just being grew being rooted way
down deep into what who Christ is.
That's how we can continue.
We continue to live in him as we
get those roots way down in there.
The third one is to be built up
and he kind of changes perspectives
here from a tree to a house.
Now, trees send their roots down.
A house is built up.
This is what is seen in life.
Okay, the roots are way down,
and that's the foundation.
And we kind of, he's kind of mixing
metaphors here, but, but that, the
roots are the foundation, and we begin
to build up, um, in, in the, uh, In
the construction phase, and we are
currently this is a present tense.
We are under construction.
We're being built.
This is a passive verb.
God builds us up as we walk in him.
God is the one who builds us up.
He builds us up with knowledge
of the things that we should
know the truth that's there.
He builds us up in obedience,
giving us many opportunities to
serve him and to be obedient to
him and God as we as we make it.
The most of those opportunities
we could build up in him.
The third picture word, the fourth step,
is being strengthened in the faith.
And this word for strengthened
means to be established.
It means to be firm.
It means to be a rock.
It means to be unwavering.
And when I thought about this picture
word, several Words came to my mind.
Thoughts came to my mind.
The first was Jell O.
I, I, I was a, I was a kid in the
60s, in the 70s, and Jell O, I'm
not sure if it was first invented
then or not, but I just thought Jell
O was the best thing in the world.
I mean, it was like I Water and
you know, my mom just mixed up
some stuff and it was just watery.
Put it in the refrigerator
and the next day she could
turn it over and it was firm.
It was blue, blue.
It was great.
I love the taste.
You could cut it with a
fork, but it was solid.
I thought, man, that's cool.
That's a great picture.
But I thought, no, you know, you could.
You can take that with a spoon
and you can throw it if you want.
You can do all kinds of stuff.
It's not really this strengthening.
So I thought about concrete.
That's a good example.
Concrete, especially quickcrete.
I don't know if you've ever worked with
quickcrete, but you better know exactly
where you're going to put that quickcrete,
like right away, or it's going to be
a rock in your bucket really fast.
I thought, that's a great example.
Then I thought, no, you know, in our
neighborhood right now, they're putting in
a, uh, A new, uh, gas line, and so they're
going up and they're ripping up, uh, some
of the sidewalks and you have, you just
have this little, uh, backhoe comes and
just rips it up and then the concrete
just smashes and all that kind of stuff.
And that's not a very
good picture in some way.
So this is my best picture of
what I think Paul is trying to
tell us, uh, and that is epoxy.
Wood glue.
Now again, I'm a little kid and my dad
is an engineer, but my dad is really
a carpenter at heart He used to go
down in the basement to make sawdust.
That's what he said And so he was
always making something in the basement.
So one day I was down I
said hey dad, how you doing?
So all Dave come over here.
I got to show you I just got this new
epoxy wood glue And he, he said, I'm gonna
put all these pieces of wood together
and he had, he had cherry and he had teak
and he had walnut and he had all these
different kind of scraps of wood and
he says, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, uh, glue
these all together and then I'm just gonna
cut a slice away and I'm gonna put some,
um, polyurethane on top and the grain is
gonna come out and the color is gonna,
this is gonna be a beautiful artwork.
I said, man, that's great.
And he said, and this is the best thing.
If somebody drops Yeah.
Yeah.
This artwork or if somebody even tries
to break this artwork, the wood is
going to break before the glue does.
The glue is so much stronger
than the wood itself.
That's the picture that I think
Paul is trying to say to us.
We need to be like epoxy wood glue.
Gorilla wood glue wasn't
I don't know if you can see that
picture, but it is being so strong
that no matter what happens in life, no
matter who might break, no matter what
situation might fall, no matter whether
COVID goes for another 10 years, oh,
but you know, no matter what happens,
we can be absolutely firm and solid,
just like a rock, just like wood glue.
Strengthened in your face.
Footstep number five.
Continue to live in
him as you were taught.
And I thought, well, who
taught the church at Colossae?
Uh, my first thought was Paul,
and I thought, no, you know what?
Paul never even visited
the church at Colossae.
There's a guy by the name of Epaphras, who
was a disciple of Paul, but Epaphras is
the one who came to the church and taught.
And I thought, if we could only
have Paul come and teach us.
If, if we could only have Epaphras.
So I thought, wait, wait a minute.
We do have.
We don't have just one letter
from Colossae from Paul.
We have 27 books of the New Testament.
We have 66 books of the entire Bible.
We have all of that word to teach us.
We also have the Holy Spirit, which
is a great passage in John 14 26 when
Jesus said, you know, when the Holy
Spirit comes, who the father is going to
send in my name, he will teach you all
things and everything that I've said.
He'll bring that back to your memories.
And I thought we have that same
Holy Spirit living in our lives.
So as we read the word and as the Holy
Spirit illuminates that word for us, We
can learn, we can continue to be taught.
And then there are faithful men.
Who teach us.
I've met with your pastor, Ben,
for several months now, just
kind of once a month, just to
talk, and he loves you guys.
He loves this church.
He is so passionate
about what's happening.
He is loving the community.
He is reaching out to that community
with this great fervor about himself.
You have a great pastor in Ben.
Encourage him.
I know you're going to go out and give
gifts to other pastors this next week.
I've never heard that before.
I just think that's fantastic.
For people from another church
to go to another church and
give a gift to the pastor.
I think that's absolutely fantastic.
Make sure you love on your pastor too.
Make sure you pay him well, okay?
Just take care of him because
he's a faithful man that can teach
you much about the Word of God.
That's step five.
Step number six.
Continue to live in him as you were
taught and overflowing with thanksgiving.
This word overflowing means an
abundance, means to excel, to exceed,
excuse me, means to bubble over.
Yeah, when I, when I drink hot
chocolate, I notice some of the guys
back there making hot chocolate.
When I make my hot chocolate, I
make my hot chocolate right to
the brim, because I want every bit
of hot chocolate that I can get.
I had a friend, uh, we used to go
out to, uh, to Chipotle for, for
lunch every once in a while, and
he'd get his, his, uh, soda glass.
And he'd go over to the, to the
place and, and fill it up and,
and it was full to the brim.
And then he'd go, and then he'd
fill it up just a little bit more.
And, and, you know, that is
not even what this means.
That means put your
soda glass under there.
And when it gets to the top,
just let it continue to run.
And it'll run clear over, go down
your hand, go into the little trough.
That's what it means.
It means bubbling over.
It's completely past the brim.
And I like the, the word leftover.
Because basically it's saying.
We have enough left over.
After a bubble's over, we
still have enough left over.
This is the word that's used
after the feeding of the 5, 000.
When everybody had their
full, they were all stuffed.
They couldn't have any
more bread, no more fish.
Man, we're just stuffed.
There were 12 baskets left over.
That's the kind of, that's the kind of
overwhelming Grace and thanksgiving.
We have to have.
I don't know if you can see this, this
picture, but I picked this picture.
I've never really seen this one
before, but this is Jesus and his
disciples coming out after the feeding
of the 5000 and each one of the 12
described disciples has a basket.
I don't think there was a mistake
that there were 12 baskets left over.
Each one of them has their own
basket, a way of just remembering
what God did in such a miraculous way.
And I think we need to have that same
kind of leftover thinking as we think
about what Jesus has done in our lives.
We just need to be
overwhelming, overflowing with
thankfulness, with gratitude.
What has God done for us in the rain?
What has God done for
us down in the valley?
What has God done for us on the mountain?
All of those things, we should just
be overwhelmed with thankfulness.
Is the situation good?
No.
Is the situation really difficult?
Yeah.
But how thankful we are for
what God has done in our lives.
That's the first six steps.
The seventh step is found in verse eight.
And notice the change that Paul makes.
In what's happening here.
So see to it that no one takes you
captive through hollow and hollow and
deceptive philosophy, which depends on
human tradition and the basic principles
of this world rather than on Christ.
Here it is.
See to it.
Beware.
What a change.
The first six of these
are such positive things.
Being thankful, you know,
being a rock, being a tree.
And now he's saying beware.
Take heed.
Be concerned.
This is a warning.
See to it that no one takes you captive.
Do not become kidnapped.
Make sure they don't carry you away.
Make sure no one leads you astray.
Make sure no one seduces you.
Make no, make sure no one enslaves you.
Why?
Because there are people out there,
there are philosophies out there
that want to do that in our lives.
So how do we continue to walk?
We need to make sure we're
protecting ourselves.
So how do they take us captive?
They take us captive through
hollow and deceptive philosophy.
Philosophy is not bad.
Philosophy means a seeking after wisdom.
That's, that's good.
The time that philosophy becomes bad is
when it's hollow, and when it's deceptive.
It's, it's hollow.
It's empty.
There's nothing there.
I, I remember, uh, as a kid getting a, a
chocolate, uh, Easter bunny for Easter.
I thought, man, this is gonna be great.
And I, I took it and I took a big bite.
It was hollow inside.
I thought, what a disappointment that is.
A hollow bunny.
I thought it was going
to be solid chocolate.
You know, that's kind of what,
what these philosophies can do.
The ones these are, they look good, man.
It's chocolate on the outside and you take
a bite and you find out it's empty inside.
They're deceptive.
This Greek word for deceptive, it means,
you might even want to write this down.
It means, Deceptive.
Uh huh.
It looks like one thing, but it's not.
Again, as a kid, I remember my
mom bringing out this beautiful
bowl of fruit, putting it on the
living room table and walking away.
Didn't say anything to me.
Just walked away.
I thought, man.
Soon as mom gets out of sight,
I got my eye on this apple.
Shiny, beautiful, red apple.
So soon as she's out of sight, I
make a beeline there, and I grab that
apple, and I take a bite, and it's wax.
It looked like one thing.
Very deceptive because it was
something totally different.
Don't get captive by something
that's hollow and deceptive.
Something that depends on human tradition
and the basic principles of this world.
I picked, I picked this, this picture
for, for this screen because it is
the beginning of Fiddler on the Roof.
Anybody familiar with Fiddler
on the Roof as a musical?
Yeah, and they come out
and they say, Tradition!
Tradition!
You know, and it's all
about great traditions.
Another good word.
I love traditions.
We have, we have birthday
parties just about probably all
of you have a birthday party.
It's kind of a tradition.
You know, we have a lot of traditions
in our house that go along with that
birthday party, but that's a good thing.
Christmas really is a tradition.
We don't know what day Jesus was
born on, but we traditionally,
we celebrate it on the 25th.
It's a good thing.
Except when Santa kind of
blocks out the nativity.
And then we've entered into a philosophy
that I would call materialism.
Okay, so it's a hollow thing
that's part of that tradition.
Easter as well, probably the
greatest Sunday of the church year.
Celebrating the resurrection
of Jesus Christ.
What a great tradition that's at.
But again, if the, if the Easter bunny
blocks the, the, uh, the empty tomb.
We've, we've gone to secularism.
And so there's these philosophies
that can invade us, and destroy
us, and take us captive.
The basic tradition, the human tradition,
and the basic principles of this world.
That's, that's kind of a more difficult,
philosophical kind of, uh, statement.
What, what, what does that,
what does that even really mean?
Basic principles.
Because basic principles are good.
The problem is, it's the
basic principles of the world.
And so, the basic principle of
the world is that, uh, all of this
happened because of the Big Bang.
You know, I mean, it's all just
kind of evolutionary stuff.
And when you think about evolution
and the Big Bang theory...
Uh, you have to think that, okay, we
came from something, not sure how it
even started, but it went kaboom, and
it went kaboom, uh, you know, it kind of
created the universe, and then there's
this little puddle of something, and
electricity must've hit it, I mean,
uh, lightning must've hit it, and so,
then all of a sudden, there's life.
That is so much harder to believe than
just a creator, someone who has this
master design and actually made it happen.
But that's the, that's the philosophy,
those basic principles, you know,
the basic principles of the world
has, have redefined in recent
years what marriage is all about.
It's redefined what gender is all about.
I, I, I happen to just Google genders,
try, try this maybe, no, don't try
this, uh, some, this afternoon, uh,
but, but I just Googled, uh, gender and
the first article said the six genders.
I said six.
Man, I can think of male, I can think
of female, I can even think of neuter,
couldn't go any further than that.
And then the next article down says,
121 gender preferences in 2021, 121,
I thought something's just a little
messed up on, on, on the principle that
God made in making us in the, in the
basic principles maybe of this world.
Kind of a downer of a
way to end, isn't it?
But I think that Paul's statement
is a very, very sobering one.
We gotta continue to walk, continue to
walk, continue to hike, to remembering
back on, on how we found the Lord.
Be in a, be in a tree, be in a
a, a house, be in a rock learning
overflowing with thankfulness.
But don't forget, don't forget to beware.
Father, I do thank you for your amazing
grace, and I thank you, Lord, for
the salvation that we have in Jesus.
And I thank you, Lord, that we
can continue to walk in him.
Because he sends those roots.
He builds us up.
He teaches us.
And so Lord, may you be with us.
Be with this church.
Lord, I pray that you would
just bless them in Jesus name.
Amen.